README.md, before:

# Triangle++
[comment]: # " ![triangle-PP's logo](triangle-PP-sm.jpg) "
<img src="triangle-PP-sm.jpg" alt="triangle-PP's logo" width="160"/><br/>*Triangle++* (aka *TrianglePP*) is a C++ wrapper for the original J.P. Shevchuk's 2005 C-language *Triangle* package. 

The library can create standard **Delaunay** triangulations and their duals, i.e. **Voronoi** diagrams (aka Dirichlet tessellations). 

Additionally it can generate:
 1. **quality Delaunay** triangulations (where we can set bounds on the areas and angles of the resulting triangles) 
 2. **constrained Delaunay** triangulations (where we can connect some points with and edge and require that this edge will be part of the result). 

    BTW, constrained Delaunay triangulations open up some very interesting possibilities: they allow us to triangulate polygons even with other polygons inside them. These embedded polygons can be also marked as **holes** and **excluded** from triangulation. On top of this, we can even specify quality constraints, even different ones for each separate **region**. The next figure shows an example of that: <img src="docs/pics/constr-triangulation-example.jpg" alt="constrained example" height="220"/>    

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;See below in the **Demo App** section for screenshots illustrating some other possibilities.

Moreover, support for saving and reading **point and polygon files** is available.

This code is released under LPGL licence.

## Usage:

For usage patterns see the examples in the *trpp_example.cpp* source file. The interface of the *trpp*-wrapper is defined in the *tpp_inteface.hpp* header file. A (very) basic usage example is shown in the code snippet below:

    // prepare input
    std::vector<Delaunay::Point> delaunayInput;
    
    delaunayInput.push_back(Delaunay::Point(0,0));
    delaunayInput.push_back(Delaunay::Point(1,1));
    delaunayInput.push_back(Delaunay::Point(0,2));
    delaunayInput.push_back(Delaunay::Point(3,3));

    // use standard triangulation
    Delaunay trGenerator(delaunayInput);
    trGenerator.Triangulate();

    // iterate over triangles
    for (FaceIterator fit = trGenerator.fbegin(); fit != trGenerator.fend(); ++fit)
    {
        int vertexIdx1 = fit.Org(); 
        int vertexIdx2 = fit.Dest();
        int vertexIdx3 = fit.Apex();

        // access point's coordinates: 
        double x1 = delaunayInput[vertexIdx1][0];
        double y1 = delaunayInput[vertexIdx1][1];
    }

You can also use the *foreach()* style loop as shown below:

    for (const auto& f : trGenerator.faces())
    {
        int vertexIdx1 = f.Org();
        ...
    }

For more examples consult the *docs* directory.

## Build:

Normally, you just add two source files to your project:
 - *tpp_assert.cpp*
 - *tpp_impl.cpp*,

and include the API definition file *tpp_interface.hpp* where it is needed.

Alternatively, you can also build *TrianglePP* as a **DLL/shared library**. The CMake file for that can be found in the *dll* subdirectory along with an example project using *TrianglePP* as a shared library.
 - **WARNING:** DLL build was only tested on Windows as for now!!!!

## Demo App:

Additionally, under *testappQt* you'll find a **GUI programm** to play with the triangulations:

![triangle-PP's GUI test program](docs/pics/triangle-pp-testApp.gif)

and with tesselations/Voronoi diagrams:

![triangle-PP's GUI screenshot 2](docs/pics/triangle-pp-testApp-Voronoi.jpg)

and... even move the points around!

![DemoApp moving points](docs/pics/moving-the-points.gif)

Moreover, you can try your hand at quality triangulations:

![triangle-PP's GUI screenshot](docs/pics/triangle-pp-testApp-Constrained.jpg)

constrained triangulations:

![triangle-PP's GUI test program 1](docs/pics/tri-w-segment-constarints.gif)

(also with holes!):

![triangle-PP's GUI Screenshot 1](docs/pics/triangle-pp-testApp-with-hole.jpg)

(also without enclosing convex hull):

![triangle-PP's GUI Screenshot Linux 1](docs/pics/triangle-pp-Linux-constrained-with-hole.jpg)

(also with regions and region constraints):

![triangle-PP's GUI regions](docs/pics/triangle-pp-testApp-regions.jpg)


You can then save your work to a text file and then read it back some other time:

![triangle-PP's File I/O](docs/pics/triangle-pp-testApp-File_IO.jpg)

## Original Triangle package

![Triangle logo](T.gif) 

This code is a wrapper for the original 2005 J.P. Shevchuk's *Triangle* package that was written in old plain C. The library was a **winner** of the 2003 James Hardy Wilkinson Prize in Numerical Software (sic!).
For more information you can look at:
 - http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~quake/triangle.html
 - http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~quake/triangle.demo.html
 - *README* file in the *docs* directory
 
## History

I started with Piyush Kumar's [C++/OO wrapper](https://bitbucket.org/piyush/triangle/overview) of the original *Triangle* code, ported it to Visual C++ (VisualStudio 2008/Win32), did some bugfixes, and extended the wrapper for constrainied triangulations and Voronoi diagrams. 
Then the code was ported to x64 Windows and Linux, *CMake* support (for both the example program and the GUI demonstrator) was added, as well as Catch2 unit test suite. 
Recently, support for reading and writing of *Triangle*'s file formats, regions and regional constraints, as well as for input data sanitization were also added.

## TODOs:
 - remove warnings

 - decouple tpp::Delaunay from the reviver::dpoint<> class
 - Add support for all options in constrained triangulations (Steiner point constraints, boundary attributes)
 - add support for saving Voronoi meshes in an .edge file
 - add support for saving triangulations as GLB files (Draco encoded?)

 - add support for refining of triangulations (??) 
 - add convex hull demonstration to the Qt demo app (??)
  
 - add CI support (Travis?)
 - Port the Qt demo app to Emscripten (&& Qt 6 !!!)

 - add Python bindings
 - add Python demo

Commit message:

ported Demo App to Qt6

README.md, after:

# Triangle++
[comment]: # " ![triangle-PP's logo](triangle-PP-sm.jpg) "
<img src="triangle-PP-sm.jpg" alt="triangle-PP's logo" width="160"/><br/>*Triangle++* (aka *TrianglePP*) is a C++ wrapper for the original J.P. Shevchuk's 2005 C-language *Triangle* package. 

The library can create standard **Delaunay** triangulations and their duals, i.e. **Voronoi** diagrams (aka Dirichlet tessellations). 

Additionally it can generate:
 1. **quality Delaunay** triangulations (where we can set bounds on the areas and angles of the resulting triangles) 
 2. **constrained Delaunay** triangulations (where we can connect some points with and edge and require that this edge will be part of the result). 

    BTW, constrained Delaunay triangulations open up some very interesting possibilities: they allow us to triangulate polygons even with other polygons inside them. These embedded polygons can be also marked as **holes** and **excluded** from triangulation. On top of this, we can even specify quality constraints, even different ones for each separate **region**. The next figure shows an example of that: <img src="docs/pics/constr-triangulation-example.jpg" alt="constrained example" height="220"/>    

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;See below in the **Demo App** section for screenshots illustrating some other possibilities.

Moreover, support for saving and reading **point and polygon files** is available.

This code is released under LPGL licence.

## Usage:

For usage patterns see the examples in the *trpp_example.cpp* source file. The interface of the *trpp*-wrapper is defined in the *tpp_inteface.hpp* header file. A (very) basic usage example is shown in the code snippet below:

    // prepare input
    std::vector<Delaunay::Point> delaunayInput;
    
    delaunayInput.push_back(Delaunay::Point(0,0));
    delaunayInput.push_back(Delaunay::Point(1,1));
    delaunayInput.push_back(Delaunay::Point(0,2));
    delaunayInput.push_back(Delaunay::Point(3,3));

    // use standard triangulation
    Delaunay trGenerator(delaunayInput);
    trGenerator.Triangulate();

    // iterate over triangles
    for (FaceIterator fit = trGenerator.fbegin(); fit != trGenerator.fend(); ++fit)
    {
        int vertexIdx1 = fit.Org(); 
        int vertexIdx2 = fit.Dest();
        int vertexIdx3 = fit.Apex();

        // access point's coordinates: 
        double x1 = delaunayInput[vertexIdx1][0];
        double y1 = delaunayInput[vertexIdx1][1];
    }

You can also use the *foreach()* style loop as shown below:

    for (const auto& f : trGenerator.faces())
    {
        int vertexIdx1 = f.Org();
        ...
    }

For more examples consult the *docs* directory.

## Build:

Normally, you just add two source files to your project:
 - *tpp_assert.cpp*
 - *tpp_impl.cpp*,

and include the API definition file *tpp_interface.hpp* where it is needed.

Alternatively, you can also build *TrianglePP* as a **DLL/shared library**. The CMake file for that can be found in the *dll* subdirectory along with an example project using *TrianglePP* as a shared library.
 - **WARNING:** DLL build was only tested on Windows as for now!!!!

## Demo App:

Additionally, under *testappQt* you'll find a **GUI programm** to play with the triangulations:

![triangle-PP's GUI test program](docs/pics/triangle-pp-testApp.gif)

and with tesselations/Voronoi diagrams:

![triangle-PP's GUI screenshot 2](docs/pics/triangle-pp-testApp-Voronoi.jpg)

and... even move the points around!

![DemoApp moving points](docs/pics/moving-the-points.gif)

Moreover, you can try your hand at quality triangulations:

![triangle-PP's GUI screenshot](docs/pics/triangle-pp-testApp-Constrained.jpg)

constrained triangulations:

![triangle-PP's GUI test program 1](docs/pics/tri-w-segment-constarints.gif)

(also with holes!):

![triangle-PP's GUI Screenshot 1](docs/pics/triangle-pp-testApp-with-hole.jpg)

(also without enclosing convex hull):

![triangle-PP's GUI Screenshot Linux 1](docs/pics/triangle-pp-Linux-constrained-with-hole.jpg)

(also with regions and region constraints):

![triangle-PP's GUI regions](docs/pics/triangle-pp-testApp-regions.jpg)


You can then save your work to a text file and then read it back some other time:

![triangle-PP's File I/O](docs/pics/triangle-pp-testApp-File_IO.jpg)

## Original Triangle package

![Triangle logo](T.gif) 

This code is a wrapper for the original 2005 J.P. Shevchuk's *Triangle* package that was written in old plain C. The library was a **winner** of the 2003 James Hardy Wilkinson Prize in Numerical Software (sic!).
For more information you can look at:
 - http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~quake/triangle.html
 - http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~quake/triangle.demo.html
 - *README* file in the *docs* directory
 
## History

I started with Piyush Kumar's [C++/OO wrapper](https://bitbucket.org/piyush/triangle/overview) of the original *Triangle* code, ported it to Visual C++ (VisualStudio 2008/Win32), did some bugfixes, and extended the wrapper for constrainied triangulations and Voronoi diagrams. 
Then the code was ported to x64 Windows and Linux, *CMake* support (for both the example program and the GUI demonstrator) was added, as well as Catch2 unit test suite. 
Recently, support for reading and writing of *Triangle*'s file formats, regions and regional constraints, as well as for input data sanitization were also added. GUI DemoApp was then ported fron Qt5 to Qt6.

## TODOs:
 - remove warnings

 - decouple tpp::Delaunay from the reviver::dpoint<> class
 - Add support for all options in constrained triangulations (Steiner point constraints, boundary attributes)
 - add support for saving Voronoi meshes in an .edge file
 - add support for saving triangulations as GLB files (Draco encoded?)

 - add support for refining of triangulations (needed ???) 
 - add convex hull demonstration to the Qt demo app (needed ???)
  
 - add CI support (Travis?)
 - Port the Qt demo app to Emscripten

 - add Python bindings
 - add Python demo
